Social networking services have the hidden potential to reveal valuable insights when statistical analysis is applied to their unstructured data
This article presents research investigating the use of spatiotemporally tagged tweets for crime prediction
We then incorporate these topics into a crime prediction model and show that, for 19 of the 25 crime types we studied, the addition
of Twitter data improves crime prediction performance versus a standard approach based on kernel
density estimation conventional crime prediction models that employ Twitter data have limitations on describing the real time reflection of criminal incidents. Polarities of sentiment and possible weather factors have the ability to improve the accuracy and maximize the predictive power of crime models
In order to achieve our goal, we set four objectives: 
(1) to analyze textual content in Twitter data by using sentiment analysis to score the positivity/negativity of tweets and their trends in different neighborhoods. 
(2) to identify the weather factors that serve as significant indicators to predict certain crime incidents. 
(3) to employ algorithm more efficient than existing kernel density estimation (KDE) to derive the distribution of crime incidents in the Chicago area.
(4) to build and evaluate the predictive model by adding Twitter-derived data and weather factors to criminal incident data.
 Recent research has shown that tweets can be used to predict
various large-scale events like elections [3], infectious disease outbreaks
[4], and national revolutions [5]. The essential hypothesis is that the location,
timing, and content of tweets are informative with regard to future
events.
However, there are many challenges to using Twitter as an information
source for crime prediction. Tweets are notorious for (un)intentional
misspellings, on-the-fly word invention, symbol use, and syntactic
structures that often defy even the simplest computational treatments
(e.g., word boundary identification) [6]. To make matters worse, Twitter
imposes a 140-character limit on the length of each tweet, encouraging
the use of these and other message shortening devices. Lastly, we are interested
in predicting crime at a city-block resolution or finer, and it is not
clear how tweets should be aggregated to support such analyses (prior
work has investigated broader resolutions, for example, at the city or
country levels)




2. Related work
2.1. Crime prediction-hotspot...............
2.2. Prediction via social media


evaluation and results
We used MALLET to identify topic probabilities,
configured with 5000 Gibbs sampling iterations and an optimization interval
(how often to reestimate the α and β hyperparameters, see
Fig. 4) of 10, but otherwise used the default MALLET parameters


//methods used
We used LibLinear [24] to estimate coefficients within the logistic regression
model. To counter the effects of class imbalance (there are far more negative
points than positive points), we set LibLinear's C parameter to N
P
,
with N and P being the counts of negative and positive points in the training
set, respectively. Model execution entailed (1) training the model on
a 31-day window for crime type T, (2) making T predictions for the first
day following the training window, and (3) sliding one day into the future
and repeating. This mirrors a practical setup where a new prediction
for T is run each day.
. A surveillance
plot measures the percentage of true T crimes during the prediction
window (y-axis) that occur within the x% most threatened area according
to the model's prediction for T.

An optimal prediction sorts the 200-meter prediction squares in descending
order of how many future crimes they will contain. This property
makes surveillance plots appropriate for decision makers, who must allocate
scarce resources (e.g., police patrols) across the geographic space




conclusions and framework
Prior to this research, the benefits of Twitter messages (or tweets)
for crime prediction were largely unknown. Specifically, the implications
of GPS-tagged tweets had not been addressed, and very few of
the many possible crime types had been investigated. Moreover, performance
comparisons with standard hot-spot models had not been performed.




limitations of already available methods
Tweet and network analysis: We have not analyzed the textual content
of tweets beyond tokenization, part-of-speech tagging, and
topic modeling. Digging deeper into the semantics of tweets could
provide performance improvements compared to the models we
have presented. For example, it would be interesting to analyze the
predicate–argument structure of tweets in order to extract the
events they describe and the actors in those events. We are not
aware of such analyzers specifically designed for tweets, but many
exist for standard newswire text and could be adapted to the Twitter
domain [25].
Temporal modeling: Our models do not properly account for temporal
effects such as trends, lags, and periodicity. Intuitively, it makes sense
that crime patterns could exhibit these behaviors and that Twitter
content might be more predictive when message timestamps are
taken into account. For example, one could identify trends within
the topic proportions for a neighborhood and incorporate a trend variable
(e.g., magnitude of increase or decrease) into the model.





Data Collection
The primary data source that we used for making a crime predictive model was Twitter data. We utilized tweets with GPS coordinates, which were generated within the Chicago city boundary from January 1st 2014 to Jan 31st, 2014 (n=1069804). The twitter posts we used came from the official Twitter streaming API, bounded with coordinates [-87.94,41.64] (South-West limit) and [-87.52, 42.02] (North-East limit) [9]. Figure 1 shows a kernel density estimation plot for tweets generated within the Chicago city boundary during the time period. In addition to Twitter data, Chicago criminal incidents data shows the historical trends of theft incidents occurred in Chicago. This data originated from the Chicago data portal website, which was developed by the Chicago Police Department by tracking theft incidents committed on spatial points indicated with specific latitude and longitude, and the time of the theft incidents [10]. These historical theft records within the boundary of the Chicago are from December 25th, 2013 to January 31st, 2014. The data contains 5395 theft incidents points. The last data we utilized was weather data. We collected this data from Weather Underground, which is one of the web sites that provide the history of weather forecast and the future forecast for Chicago [11]. The weather data contains information including minimum, mean, and maximum temperatures in Fahrenheit; dew point in Fahrenheit; humidity in % sea level pressure in Inches; visibility per Miles; wind speed in Mph; cloud cover indicated by 1 to 8; and events. Events give us information about sunny, rain, snow, and fog events on daily basis.

In general, it is difficult to explain why crime types benefited more or
less from the addition of Twitter topics. The topic modeling process is
opaque and, similar to unsupervised clustering, it can be difficult to interpret
the output. However, we did notice trends in our results.